Rework modbus documentation. (#17874)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/modbus.markdown

  - switch
---

> [Modbus](http://www.modbus.org/) is a serial communication protocol to control PLCs (Programmable Logic Controller) and RTUs (Remote Terminal Unit). The integration adhere strictly to the [protocol specification](https://modbus.org/docs/Modbus_Application_Protocol_V1_1b3.pdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Modbus](http://www.modbus.org/) is a serial communication protocol to control PLCs (Programmable Logic Controller) and RTUs (Remote Terminal Unit). The integration adheres strictly to the [protocol specification](https://modbus.org/docs/Modbus_Application_Protocol_V1_1b3.pdf).
```

> Modbus supports all devices adhering to the modbus standard. The communication between the device(s) can be serial (rs-485), TCP, or UDP connections. The modbus integration allows multiple communications e.g. serial combined with TCP or different TCP connected devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modbus supports all devices adhering to the Modbus standard. The communication between the device(s) can be serial (rs-485), TCP, or UDP connections. The Modbus integration allows multiple communications e.g. serial combined with TCP or different TCP connected devices.
```

> # Configuring modbus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configuring Modbus
```

> First you define how to communicate with your modbus devices and after that you define the information being exchanged. The modbus integration allows you to use multiple connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you define how to communicate with your Modbus devices and after that you define the information being exchanged. The Modbus integration allows you to use multiple connections.
```

> ## Configuring modbus common parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Modbus common parameters
```

Part of the configuration is common for all types of communication. Add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
modbus:

>   - name: hub1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - name: "hub1"
```

    close_comm_on_error: true
    delay: 5
    timeout: 5
    type: tcp
```

{% configuration %}
close_comm_on_error:

>   description: Determines if the device connection is closed when an error occurs, default is true. Some serial-rs485 adapters delivers garble when opened, this leads to a disconnect and a new connect, which can continue. If in a running communication the debug log contains a message from pymodbus, with the text "cleaning....", then try this parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Determines if the device connection is closed when an error occurs, default is true. Some serial-rs485 adapters deliver garble when opened, this leads to a disconnect and a new connect, which can continue. If in a running communication the debug log contains a message from pymodbus, with the text "cleaning....", then try this parameter.
```

  required: false
  default: true
  type: boolean
delay:

>   description: "Time to delay sending messages in seconds after connecting. Some modbus devices need a delay of typically 1-2 seconds after established connection to prepare the communication. If a device does not response to messagees after connect, this parameter might help. Remark: the delay is solely between connect and the first message."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "Time to delay sending messages in seconds after connecting. Some Modbus devices need a delay of typically 1-2 seconds after established connection to prepare the communication. If a device does not respond to messages after connecting, this parameter might help. Remark: the delay is solely between connect and the first message."
```

  required: false
  default: 0
  type: integer
name:
  description: Name for this hub. Must be unique, so it is required when setting up multiple instances.
  required: false
  default: "modbus_hub"
  type: string
timeout:

>   description: Timeout while wating for response in seconds. Remark timout less than 5 seconds will be automatically adjusted to 5 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Timeout while waiting for a response in seconds. Remark: a timeout of fewer than 5 seconds will be automatically adjusted to 5 seconds.
```

>   description: Timeout while waiting for a response in seconds. Remark: a timeout of fewer than 5 seconds will be automatically adjusted to 5 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "Timeout while waiting for a response in seconds. Remark: a timeout of fewer than 5 seconds will be automatically adjusted to 5 seconds."
```

  required: false
  default: 5
  type: integer
type:

>   description: Type of communication. Possible values are `tcp` Modbus messages with modbus TCP frame on TCP/IP, `udp` Modbus messages with modbus TCP frame on UDP, `rtuovertcp` Modbus messages with a wrapper TCP/IP simulating a serial lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Type of communication. Possible values are `tcp` Modbus messages with Modbus TCP frame on TCP/IP, `udp` Modbus messages with Modbus TCP frame on UDP, `rtuovertcp` Modbus messages with a wrapper TCP/IP simulating a serial line.
```

  required: true
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

## Configuring network connection

For a network (type: `tcp`/`udp`/`rtuovertcp`) connection, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring-modbus-common-parameters):

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for a TCP connection
modbus:

>   - name: hub1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - name: "hub1"
```

    type: tcp
    host: IP_ADDRESS
    port: 502
```

{% configuration %}
host:

>   description: The IP address of your Modbus device, e.g., 192.168.1.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: The IP address of your Modbus device, e.g., `192.168.1.1`.
```

Modbus supports all devices adhering to the modbus standard. The communication between the device(s) can be serial (rs-485), TCP, or UDP connections. The modbus integration allows multiple communications e.g. serial combined with TCP or different TCP connected devices.

# Configuring modbus

First you define how to communicate with your modbus devices and after that you define the information being exchanged. The modbus integration allows you to use multiple connections.

## Configuring modbus common parameters

Part of the configuration is common for all types of communication. Add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:
```yaml
modbus:
  - name: hub1
    close_comm_on_error: true
    delay: 5
    timeout: 5
    type: tcp
```
{% configuration %}
close_comm_on_error:
  description: Determines if the device connection is closed when an error occurs, default is true. Some serial-rs485 adapters delivers garble when opened, this leads to a disconnect and a new connect, which can continue. If in a running communication the debug log contains a message from pymodbus, with the text "cleaning....", then try this parameter.
  required: false
  default: true
  type: boolean
delay:

>   description: Time to delay sending messages in seconds after connecting. Some modbus devices need a delay of typically 1-2 seconds after established connection to prepare the communication. If a device does not response to messagees after connect, this parameter might help. Remark: the delay is solely between connect and the first message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description: "Time to delay sending messages in seconds after connecting. Some modbus devices need a delay of typically 1-2 seconds after established connection to prepare the communication. If a device does not response to messagees after connect, this parameter might help. Remark: the delay is solely between connect and the first message."
```

  required: false
  default: 0
  type: integer
name:
  description: Name for this hub. Must be unique, so it is required when setting up multiple instances.
  required: false
  default: "modbus_hub"
  type: string
timeout:
  description: Timeout while wating for response in seconds. Remark timout less than 5 seconds will be automatically adjusted to 5 seconds.
  required: false
  default: 5
  type: integer
type:

>   description: Type of communication. Possible values are\
> `tcp` Modbus messages with modbus TCP frame on TCP/IP,\
> `udp` Modbus messages with modbus TCP frame on UDP,\
> `rtuovertcp` Modbus messages with a wrapper TCP/IP simulating a serial lines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description: Type of communication. Possible values are `tcp` Modbus messages with modbus TCP frame on TCP/IP, `udp` Modbus messages with modbus TCP frame on UDP, `rtuovertcp` Modbus messages with a wrapper TCP/IP simulating a serial lines.
```

  description: "The stopbits for the serial connection, either `1` or `2`."
  required: true
  type: integer
type:
  description: "Type of the connection to Modbus, needs to be `serial` for this setup."
  required: true
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

## Configuring multiple connections

Multiple connections are possible with identical/different `type:`.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for multiple TCP connections
modbus:
  - type: tcp
    host: IP_ADDRESS_1
    port: 2020

>     name: hub1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: "hub1"
```

  - type: udp
    host: IP_ADDRESS_2
    port: 501

>     name: hub2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: "hub2"
```

```

> Remark `name:`is required for multiple connection, because it needs to be unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remark: `name:`is required for multiple connections, because it needs to be unique.
```

## Modbus services

> The modbus integration provides two generic services in addition to the platform specific services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Modbus integration provides two generic services in addition to the platform-specific services.
```

| Service | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| modbus.write_register | Write register or registers |
| modbus.write_coil | Write coil or coils |

Description:

| Attribute | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| hub       | Hub name (defaults to 'modbus_hub' when omitted) |
| unit      | Slave address (1-255, defaults to 0) |
| address   | Address of the Register (e.g. 138) |
| value     | (write_register) A single value or an array of 16-bit values. Single value will call modbus function code 0x06. Array will call modbus function code 0x10. Values might need reverse ordering. E.g., to set 0x0004 you might need to set `[4,0]`, this depend on the byte order of your CPU |
| state     | (write_coil) A single boolean or an array of booleans. Single boolean will call modbus function code 0x05. Array will call modbus function code 0x0F |

> # configure modbus platforms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# configure Modbus platforms
```

> Modbus platform entities are configured within the modbus configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modbus platform entities are configured within the Modbus configuration.
```

## Configuring platform common parameters

All modbus platforms share a set of common parameters.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for platform common parameters
modbus:
  - type: tcp
    host: IP_ADDRESS_1
    port: 2020

>     name: hub1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: "hub1"
```

    sensors:
      - name: sensor1
        scan_interval: 999
        slave: 0
```

{% configuration %}
name:
  description: Name for the platform entity which must be unique within the platform.
  required: true
  type: string
scan_interval:
  description: Defines the update interval of the entity in seconds. If scan_interval is lower than `timeout` or 5 seconds it is automatically adjusted to `timeout` (default 5 seconds).
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 10
slave:
  description: The number of the slave.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
{% endconfiguration %}

### Configuring platform binary sensor

> The modbus binary sensor allows you to gather data from coils which as per standard have state ON/OFF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Modbus binary sensor allows you to gather data from coils which as per standard have state ON/OFF.
```

> To use your modbus binary sensors in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use your Modbus binary sensors in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):
```

    host: IP_ADDRESS
    port: 502
    binary_sensors:

>       - name: binary_sensor1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "binary_sensor1"
```

        address: 100
        scan_interval: 20
        slave: 1

>       - name: binary_ensor2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "binary_ensor2"
```

        address: 110

>         device_class: "door"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        device_class: door
```

        input_type: discrete_input
```
{% configuration %}
binary_sensors:
  description: A list of all binary_sensors available in this modbus instance, omit if there are no binary_sensors.
  required: false
  type: [map]
  keys:
    address:
      description: Address of the Register.
      required: true
      type: integer
    device_class:
      description: The [type/class](/integrations/binary_sensor/#device-class) to be used for the UI (e.g. "door").
      required: false
      type: string
    input_type:
      description: type of adddress (discrete_input/coil)
      required: false
      default: coil
      type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

### Configuring platform climate

> The modbus climate platform allows to monitor your termostat as well as set a target temperature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Modbus climate platform allows you to monitor your thermostat as well as set a target temperature.
```

    port: 502
    climates:

>       - name: Watlow F4T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "Watlow F4T"
```

Cover that uses the `coil` attribute is not able to determine intermediary states such as opening and closing. Coil stores only two states — "0" means cover closed, and "1" implies cover open. To allow detecting intermediary states, there is an optional `status_register` attribute. It will enable you to write your command (e.g., to open a cover) into a coil, and read current cover status back through the register. Additionally, you can specify values for `state_open`, `state_opening`, `state_closed`, and `state_closing` attributes. These will be matched with the value read from the `status_register`.

If your cover uses holding register to send commands (defined by the `register` attribute), it can also read the intermediary states. To adjust which value represents what state, you can fine-tune the optional state attributes, like `state_open`. These optional state values are also used for specifying values written into the register. If you specify an optional status_register attribute, cover states will be read from status_register instead of the register used for sending commands.

> To use modbus covers in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Modbus covers in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):
```

    covers:
      - name: Door1
        device_class: door
        coil: 117

>         device_class: "door"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        device_class: door
```

        state_open: 1
        state_opening: 2
        state_closed: 0
        state_closing: 3
        status_register: 119
        status_register_type: holding

>       - name: Door2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "Door2"
```

        register: 117
```

{% configuration %}
covers:

>   description: The array contains a list of all your modbus covers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: The array contains a list of all your Modbus covers.
```

        state_closed: 0
```

### Configuring platform fan

The `modbus` fan platform allows you to control [Modbus](http://www.modbus.org/) coils or registers.

To use your Modbus fans in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
modbus:
  - type: tcp
    host: IP_ADDRESS
    port: 502
    fans:

>       - name: Fan1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "Fan1"
```

        address: 13
        write_type: coil

>       - name: Fan2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "Fan2"
```

        slave: 2
        address: 14
        write_type: coil
        verify:

>       - name: Register1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "Register1"
```

        address: 11
        command_on: 1
        command_off: 0
        verify:
            input_type: holding
            address: 127
            state_on: 25
            state_off: 1
```

{% configuration %}
fans:
  description: The array contains a list of all your Modbus fans.
  required: true
  type: map
  keys:
    address:

>       description: Coil number or register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Coil number or register.
```

      required: true
      type: integer
    command_on:
      description: Value to write to turn on the fan.
      required: false
      default: 0x01
      type: integer
    command_off:
      description: Value to write to turn off the fan.
      required: false
      default: 0x00
      type: integer
    write_type:

>       description: type of adddress (holding/coil)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Type of address (holding/coil).
```

      required: false
      default: holding
      type: string
    name:
      description: Name of the fan.
      required: true
      type: string
    verify:

>       description: Read from modbus device to verify fan. If used without attributes it uses the toggle register configuration. If omitted no verification is done, but the state of the fan is set with each toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Read from Modbus device to verify fan. If used without attributes it uses the toggle register configuration. If omitted no verification is done, but the state of the fan is set with each toggle.
```

      required: false
      type: map
      keys:
        address:

>           description: address to read from. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Address to read from. 
```

          required: false
          default: write address
          type: integer
        input_type:

>           description: type of adddress (holding/coil/discrete/input)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Type of adddress (holding/coil/discrete/input).
```

          required: false
          default: write_type
          type: integer
        state_on:

>           description: value when fan is on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Value when the fan is on.
```

          required: false
          default: same as command_on
          type: integer
        state_off:

>           description: value when fan is off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Value when the fan is off.
```

          required: false
          default: same as command_off
          type: integer
{% endconfiguration %}

### Configuring platform light

The `modbus` light platform allows you to control [Modbus](http://www.modbus.org/) coils or registers.

To use your Modbus lights in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
modbus:
  - type: tcp
    host: IP_ADDRESS
    port: 502
    lights:

>       - name: light1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "light1"
```

        address: 13
        write_type: coil

>       - name: light2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "light2"
```

        slave: 2
        address: 14
        write_type: coil
        verify:

>       - name: Register1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - name: "Register1"
```

        address: 11
        command_on: 1
        command_off: 0
        verify:
            input_type: holding
            address: 127
            state_on: 25
            state_off: 1
```

{% configuration %}
lights:
  description: The array contains a list of all your Modbus lights.
  required: true
  type: map
  keys:
    address:

>       description: Coil number or register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Coil number or register.
```

      required: true
      type: integer
    command_on:

>       description: Value to write to turn on the fan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Value to write to turn on the light.
```

      required: false
      default: 0x01
      type: integer
    command_off:

>       description: Value to write to turn off the fan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Value to write to turn off the light.
```

      required: false
      default: 0x00
      type: integer
    write_type:

>       description: type of adddress (holding/coil)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Type of address (holding/coil).
```

      required: false
      default: holding
      type: string
    verify:

>       description: Read from modbus device to verify fan. If used without attributes it uses the toggle register configuration. If omitted no verification is done, but the state of the fan is set with each toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: Read from Modbus device to verify the light. If used without attributes it uses the toggle register configuration. If omitted no verification is done, but the state of the light is set with each toggle.
```

      required: false
      type: map
      keys:
        address:

>           description: address to read from. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Address to read from. 
```

          required: false
          default: write address
          type: integer
        input_type:

>           description: type of adddress (holding/coil/discrete/input)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Type of address (holding/coil/discrete/input).
```

          required: false
          default: write_type
          type: integer
        state_on:

>           description: value when fan is on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Value when the light is on.
```

          required: false
          default: same as command_on
          type: integer
        state_off:

>           description: value when fan is off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          description: Value when the light is off.
```

          required: false
          default: same as command_off
          type: integer
{% endconfiguration %}

### Configuring platform sensor

The `modbus` sensor allows you to gather data from [Modbus](http://www.modbus.org/) registers.

> To use your modbus sensors in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use your Modbus sensors in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file, in addition to the [common parameters](#configuring- platform-common-parameters):
```
